well more than 1.3 million people have
coronavirus worldwide but the impacts as
we all know goes far beyond just those
who've been infected lockdowns across
the world are affecting billions of
people and while the stress of this
pandemic is causing some to have
sleepless nights others are in fact
experiencing the very opposite more
vivid dreams well let's talk to mark
Leigh Grove who's a professor of
psychology at Swansea University and you
specialized professor in dreams I'm
assuming that dreams they show us what's
going on in our subconscious and when we
are under this kind of stress scenario
that's really coming through the through
or what we're doing what we're thinking
of at night yes that's quite true some
of the time they will show our
subconscious things that we may not be
quite so conscious of but at the moment
a lot of people will be having the quite
obvious stresses that they've got in
waking life and they may very well dream
off those stresses and added to that is
the fact that because they can sleep in
in the morning they have a greater
amount of rapid eye movement sleep
across the morning even up to about 40
minutes of it you could have near the
end of the night and this can lead to
very long dreams and far more dreams
being recalled and if people are having
anxiety and perhaps leading onto
nightmares is there any way of
controlling what's going on when we then
fall asleep eventually one thing that
we're finding is that if people talk
about the nightmares to other people or
talk about the dreams because some in
some instances they'll be having dreams
which aren't quite nightmares or for
some people who may be having a relaxed
time in the lockdown they may be having
quite pleasant dreams but what we're
finding at Swansea is the benefits of
sharing your dreams with other people so
this goes beyond any benefits that they
may be to the individual for considering
their own dreams but the sharing with
others gives a self disclosure and what
we are finding in our experiments is
that the person you share the dreams
with can end up having more empathy
towards you and the present situation
with the lockdown there's not only more
time for dreaming but there's more
for sharing dreams in the day now we
don't have that too much time but should
we be reading anything too much into
these dreams if we've got a recurring
dream or something that keeps coming
back to us well at the moment what we
did at the weekend was we discussed with
a nurse who was having Kovac about a
recurrent dream that she's having and
the dream was quite transparent in a way
it was to do with the outside world
being threatening people inside the
house at a party she was at not wanting
to know what the warning she was given
were and then her seeing a dead body and
then her having a cat on her face
suffocating her so the dreams can be
quite transparent but they can tell you
about your life in a sort of
metaphorical way and metaphors about
your life can be quite enlightening mark
thank you so much for talking us through
that is it but fascinating insight
professor blogger from Swansea
University a dream expert thank you and
if anybody is having experiencing any
more lucid or vivid dreams do get in
touch with us the hashtag is BBC OS it
would be great to hear from you